enstallation of Ansible Automation Engine on a Control (Server) Vertual Machine and Linking it to a Host
Vertual Machine via ssh protocol (or any other)

1. Creat two (or any number you need) vertual machines
2. On the Control (Server) Machine: 
    a) check for yum updates (yum update -y)
    b) Ansible package is not available in the default yum repositories, so we
    need to set up the epel (Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux) repository,
    it's open source and free community based repository from Fedora team. 
    command: rpm http://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/6/i386/epel-release-6-8.noarch.rpm
    c) yum install ansible
    d) ansible --version
    e) generate a public ssh key: ssh-keygen
    f) copy the generated key onto the host machine: ssh-copy-id -i root@IP
    address of the host machine

3. On the host machine:
    a) N.B.: if there is no internet connection try command: dhclient
    b) to find the IP address: ifconfig

4. Write Host Inventory on the Server Machine
The default location of the Host Inventory File is at /etc/ansible/hosts

    a) vim /etc/ansible/hosts
    b) Now We want to add the IP address of the new host machine into the Inventory List.
    we 1)write the name of the group (if we are planning to have
    many host machines of a certan type) and 2) IP address under it.

    [test-servers]
    192.13.14 (it's just an example of an IP address)
    
5. Now test the ssh connection: ansible -m ping 'test-servers'
6. Write the playbook.
    a) vi nginx.yml (it is a file in Yaml language) 
    N.B.: YAML (YAML Ain't Markup Language) is a human-readable data 
    serialization language. It is commonly used for configuration files,
    but could be used in many applications where data is being stored (e.g. 
    debugging output) or transmitted (e.g. document headers).
    b) every YAML file starts with three dashes: ---
    ---
    - hosts : test-servers

      tasks : 
      - name : install nginx
        yum  : pkg=nginx state=installed

        notify: 
         - start nginx
     
     handlers : 
     - name : start nginx
       service : name=nginx state=started

       :wq
7. Run the playbook in the command line: ansible-playbook nginx.yml
8. Go to the host machine and check if nginx was successfully installed 
---   on the host machine: ps waux | grep nginx
9. DONE.
10. sudo service nginx status - on host_2 to make sure ansible is running on
this machine after the remote installation

